README.md, before:

# Go24K

Go24K is a Go program that processes JPEG images in the current directory, resizes them to a height of 2160 pixels, and composites them onto a black background image with dimensions 3840x2160 pixels (4K - UHD format). The processed images are saved with a new name that includes the timestamp from the image's EXIF data. The UHD resized images are used to create a MP4 Video (H.264 codec) with music and crossfade between each image.

## Features

- **4K Video Creation**: Generates high-quality 4K UHD (3840x2160) videos from JPEG images
- **Ken Burns Effect**: Applies dynamic zoom and pan effects to images for cinematic feel
- **Flexible Audio**: Works with or without MP3 audio - automatically detects and adapts
- **Image Processing**: Automatically resizes images to 2160p height while maintaining aspect ratio
- **Smart Compositing**: Centers images on black backgrounds for consistent 4K output
- **EXIF Timestamp Support**: Uses image metadata for chronological ordering and filename generation
- **Audio Synchronization**: Seamlessly integrates background music with fade-in/fade-out effects
- **Crossfade Transitions**: Smooth fade effects between images with customizable duration
- **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Real-time progress with resolution info and processing statistics
- **Flexible Timing**: Configurable image duration and transition timing
- **Cross-Platform Compatibility**: Works on Windows CMD, Linux, and macOS with appropriate UI
- **Multi-Platform**: Pre-built binaries for Linux, macOS (Intel/ARM), and Windows

## Requirements

- Go 1.16 or later
- The following Go packages:
  - `github.com/disintegration/imaging`
  - `github.com/rwcarlsen/goexif/exif`
  - `github.com/schollz/progressbar/v3`
- FFMpeg

## Installation

### Quick Start

1. **Install FFmpeg**: https://ffmpeg.org/download.html
2. **Download the executable**: Get the pre-built binary from the [releases](../../releases) or [builds](./builds/) directory for your platform:
   - **Linux (x64)**: `builds/linux/amd64/go24k`
   - **Linux (ARM64)**: `builds/linux/arm64/go24k`
   - **macOS (Apple Silicon)**: `builds/macos/arm/go24k`
   - **macOS (Intel)**: `builds/macos/intel/go24k`
   - **Windows (x64)**: `builds/windows/amd64/go24k.exe`
   - **Windows (ARM64)**: `builds/windows/arm64/go24k.exe`

3. **Make executable** (Linux/macOS):
    ```sh
    chmod +x go24k
    ```

### Development Setup

For developers who want to build from source:

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/aloula/go24k.git
    cd go24k
    ```

2. **Install Go dependencies**:
    ```sh
    go mod download
    ```

3. **Build the executable**:
    ```sh
    go build -o go24k
    ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

1. **Place your JPEG images** in the current directory (required)
2. **Optionally add an MP3 file** for background music (not required)
3. **Run the program**:

    ```sh
    ./go24k
    ```

4. **Watch the enhanced progress**:
   - Real-time resolution conversion display
   - Processing statistics and speed metrics
   - Audio detection and mode confirmation

5. **Output**: The program creates:
   - `converted/` directory with processed 4K images  
   - `video.mp4` with or without audio as detected

### Command Line Options

Go24K supports several command-line options to customize the video generation:

```sh
./go24k [OPTIONS]
```

**Available Options:**

- `-convert-only`  
  Convert images only, without generating the video. Useful for preprocessing images or testing conversion settings.
  
- `-d <seconds>`  
  Duration per image in seconds (default: 5). Controls how long each image is displayed in the final video.
  
- `-static`  
  Disable Ken Burns effect; use static images with transitions only. Creates a simpler slideshow without zoom/pan effects.
  
- `-t <seconds>`  
  Transition (fade) duration in seconds (default: 1). Controls the crossfade time between images.

**Examples:**

```sh
# Basic video with default settings (5s per image, 1s transitions, Ken Burns effect)
./go24k

# Quick slideshow (2s per image, 0.5s transitions)
./go24k -d 2 -t 0.5

# Static slideshow without Ken Burns effect
./go24k -static -d 3 -t 1

# Long-form video (10s per image, 2s transitions)
./go24k -d 10 -t 2

# Only convert images, don't generate video
./go24k -convert-only

# Works with or without audio automatically:
# • With music.mp3 present: Creates video with synchronized audio
# • No MP3 files: Creates silent video (no errors)
```

## Building

### Cross-Platform Build

To build the program for all supported platforms, use the provided build script:

1. **Make the script executable**:
    ```sh
    chmod +x build.sh
    ```

2. **Generate builds for all platforms**:
    ```sh
    ./build.sh
    ```

    This creates binaries for:
    - Linux (x64)
    - Linux (ARM64)
    - macOS (Apple Silicon ARM64)
    - macOS (Intel x64)
    - Windows (x64)
    - Windows (ARM64)

3. **Find your builds** in the `builds/` directory:
    ```
    builds/
    ├── linux/
    │   ├── amd64/go24k
    │   └── arm64/go24k
    ├── macos/
    │   ├── arm/go24k
    │   └── intel/go24k
    └── windows/
        ├── amd64/go24k.exe
        └── arm64/go24k.exe
    ```

### Manual Build

For a single platform build:

```sh
# Build for current platform
go build -o go24k

# Build for specific platform (examples)
GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o go24k-linux
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=arm64 go build -o go24k-macos-arm
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go build -o go24k-windows.exe
```

## Output

Go24K generates the following files and provides detailed feedback:

- **`converted/`** - Directory containing processed 4K images with EXIF timestamps
- **`video.mp4`** - Final 4K video with or without audio (H.264 codec)

### Processing Feedback

During execution, you'll see:

```
=== Starting Image Conversion ===
Images to process: 12
Target: 4K UHD (3840x2160) with 2160p height scaling
Output: converted/ directory

Converting IMG_001.jpg (4032x3024->3840x2160) [████████   ] 8/12

=== Image conversion completed! ===

=== Conversion Statistics ===
   Processing time: 15.3 seconds
   Average speed: 0.8 images/sec
   Original total size: 45.2 MB
   Converted total size: 67.8 MB
   Size ratio: 1.5x

Audio file found: background.mp3
Generating video with audio...: |

=== Video generated successfully! ===
File: video.mp4
Resolution: 4K UHD (3840x2160)
Duration: 45 seconds
Images: 12
Audio: background.mp3
Size: 156.3 MB
```

### Technical Specifications

The output video uses:
- **Resolution**: 3840x2160 (4K UHD)
- **Codec**: H.264 (libx264) with CRF 23 quality
- **Audio**: AAC 192kbps with fade-in/fade-out (when MP3 present)
- **Frame Rate**: 30fps for smooth playback
- **Compatibility**: Optimized for universal playback

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**FFmpeg not found**
```
Error: ffmpeg command not found
```
- Install FFmpeg from https://ffmpeg.org/download.html
- Ensure FFmpeg is in your system PATH

**No images found**
```
No .jpg files found in current directory
```
- Place JPEG images (*.jpg) in the same directory as go24k
- Check file extensions (must be .jpg, not .jpeg)

**Permission denied (Linux/macOS)**
```
zsh: permission denied: ./go24k
```
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x go24k`

**Audio handling (improved)**
- ✅ **No MP3 required**: Program automatically creates silent video if no MP3 found
- ✅ **Auto-detection**: Shows "Audio file found" or "No MP3 file found" messages  
- ✅ **Flexible**: Works equally well with or without background music
- If you want audio: Place any `.mp3` file in the directory
- If audio issues persist: Try a different MP3 file or run without audio

### Recent Improvements (v2.0)

Go24K has been significantly enhanced with:

- **🔧 Robust Audio Handling**: No longer requires MP3 files - works with or without audio
- **📊 Enhanced Progress Display**: Real-time resolution conversion info and statistics
- **🖥️ Cross-Platform UI**: Optimized display for Windows CMD, Linux, and macOS terminals
- **⚡ Better Performance**: Software-based H.264 encoding for universal compatibility
- **📈 Detailed Feedback**: Processing statistics, speeds, file sizes, and completion summaries
- **🎯 Improved Reliability**: Better error handling and user guidance

### Performance Tips

- **Large images**: The program automatically resizes to 2160p, but starting with smaller images (2K-4K) improves processing speed
- **Many images**: Processing time scales with image count; expect 1-2 seconds per image on modern systems
- **Long videos**: For videos longer than 10 minutes, ensure sufficient disk space for the 4K output
- **Audio optional**: Skip MP3 files for faster processing or when audio isn't needed

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

feat: optimize video quality across environments
- Add environment detection (Windows native, WSL, Linux)
- Implement quality-specific FFmpeg settings per environment
- WSL now uses CRF 21 (Windows-compatible) vs Linux CRF 20
- Replace deprecated strings.Title with safer alternative
- Add --debug flag for environment and settings info
- Update README with quality optimization documentation
- Ensure consistent video quality across execution environments

README.md, after:

# Go24K

Go24K is a Go program that processes JPEG images in the current directory, resizes them to a height of 2160 pixels, and composites them onto a black background image with dimensions 3840x2160 pixels (4K - UHD format). The processed images are saved with a new name that includes the timestamp from the image's EXIF data. The UHD resized images are used to create a MP4 Video (H.264 codec) with music and crossfade between each image.

## Features

- **4K Video Creation**: Generates high-quality 4K UHD (3840x2160) videos from JPEG images
- **Ken Burns Effect**: Applies dynamic zoom and pan effects to images for cinematic feel
- **Flexible Audio**: Works with or without MP3 audio - automatically detects and adapts
- **Image Processing**: Automatically resizes images to 2160p height while maintaining aspect ratio
- **Smart Compositing**: Centers images on black backgrounds for consistent 4K output
- **EXIF Timestamp Support**: Uses image metadata for chronological ordering and filename generation
- **Audio Synchronization**: Seamlessly integrates background music with fade-in/fade-out effects
- **Crossfade Transitions**: Smooth fade effects between images with customizable duration
- **Enhanced Progress Tracking**: Real-time progress with resolution info and processing statistics
- **Flexible Timing**: Configurable image duration and transition timing
- **Cross-Platform Compatibility**: Works on Windows CMD, Linux, and macOS with appropriate UI
- **Multi-Platform**: Pre-built binaries for Linux, macOS (Intel/ARM), and Windows

## Quality Optimization

Go24K automatically detects your environment and applies optimal video encoding settings:

- **Windows Native**: CRF 21 with optimized libx264 settings
- **WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux)**: Windows-compatible settings for consistent quality
- **Linux Native**: CRF 20 for highest quality output

### Environment Detection
Use the `--debug` flag to see detected environment and encoding settings:
```bash
./go24k --debug
```

### Quality Settings Explained
- **CRF 18-20**: Visually lossless quality (larger files)
- **CRF 21-23**: High quality (recommended)
- **CRF 24-28**: Medium quality (smaller files)

The program uses different CRF values based on your environment to ensure consistent quality across platforms, addressing the quality differences that can occur between WSL and Windows native execution.

## Requirements

- Go 1.16 or later
- The following Go packages:
  - `github.com/disintegration/imaging`
  - `github.com/rwcarlsen/goexif/exif`
  - `github.com/schollz/progressbar/v3`
- FFMpeg

## Installation

### Quick Start

1. **Install FFmpeg**: https://ffmpeg.org/download.html
2. **Download the executable**: Get the pre-built binary from the [releases](../../releases) or [builds](./builds/) directory for your platform:
   - **Linux (x64)**: `builds/linux/amd64/go24k`
   - **Linux (ARM64)**: `builds/linux/arm64/go24k`
   - **macOS (Apple Silicon)**: `builds/macos/arm/go24k`
   - **macOS (Intel)**: `builds/macos/intel/go24k`
   - **Windows (x64)**: `builds/windows/amd64/go24k.exe`
   - **Windows (ARM64)**: `builds/windows/arm64/go24k.exe`

3. **Make executable** (Linux/macOS):
    ```sh
    chmod +x go24k
    ```

### Development Setup

For developers who want to build from source:

1. **Clone the repository**:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/aloula/go24k.git
    cd go24k
    ```

2. **Install Go dependencies**:
    ```sh
    go mod download
    ```

3. **Build the executable**:
    ```sh
    go build -o go24k
    ```

## Usage

### Basic Usage

1. **Place your JPEG images** in the current directory (required)
2. **Optionally add an MP3 file** for background music (not required)
3. **Run the program**:

    ```sh
    ./go24k
    ```

4. **Watch the enhanced progress**:
   - Real-time resolution conversion display
   - Processing statistics and speed metrics
   - Audio detection and mode confirmation

5. **Output**: The program creates:
   - `converted/` directory with processed 4K images  
   - `video.mp4` with or without audio as detected

### Command Line Options

Go24K supports several command-line options to customize the video generation:

```sh
./go24k [OPTIONS]
```

**Available Options:**

- `-convert-only`  
  Convert images only, without generating the video. Useful for preprocessing images or testing conversion settings.
  
- `-d <seconds>`  
  Duration per image in seconds (default: 5). Controls how long each image is displayed in the final video.
  
- `--debug`  
  Show environment detection and video encoding optimization info. Displays detected OS, architecture, and quality settings that will be used.
  
- `-static`  
  Disable Ken Burns effect; use static images with transitions only. Creates a simpler slideshow without zoom/pan effects.
  
- `-t <seconds>`  
  Transition (fade) duration in seconds (default: 1). Controls the crossfade time between images.

**Examples:**

```sh
# Basic video with default settings (5s per image, 1s transitions, Ken Burns effect)
./go24k

# Quick slideshow (2s per image, 0.5s transitions)
./go24k -d 2 -t 0.5

# Static slideshow without Ken Burns effect
./go24k -static -d 3 -t 1

# Long-form video (10s per image, 2s transitions)
./go24k -d 10 -t 2

# Only convert images, don't generate video
./go24k -convert-only

# Check environment and quality settings
./go24k --debug

# Works with or without audio automatically:
# • With music.mp3 present: Creates video with synchronized audio
# • No MP3 files: Creates silent video (no errors)
```

## Building

### Cross-Platform Build

To build the program for all supported platforms, use the provided build script:

1. **Make the script executable**:
    ```sh
    chmod +x build.sh
    ```

2. **Generate builds for all platforms**:
    ```sh
    ./build.sh
    ```

    This creates binaries for:
    - Linux (x64)
    - Linux (ARM64)
    - macOS (Apple Silicon ARM64)
    - macOS (Intel x64)
    - Windows (x64)
    - Windows (ARM64)

3. **Find your builds** in the `builds/` directory:
    ```
    builds/
    ├── linux/
    │   ├── amd64/go24k
    │   └── arm64/go24k
    ├── macos/
    │   ├── arm/go24k
    │   └── intel/go24k
    └── windows/
        ├── amd64/go24k.exe
        └── arm64/go24k.exe
    ```

### Manual Build

For a single platform build:

```sh
# Build for current platform
go build -o go24k

# Build for specific platform (examples)
GOOS=linux GOARCH=amd64 go build -o go24k-linux
GOOS=darwin GOARCH=arm64 go build -o go24k-macos-arm
GOOS=windows GOARCH=amd64 go build -o go24k-windows.exe
```

## Output

Go24K generates the following files and provides detailed feedback:

- **`converted/`** - Directory containing processed 4K images with EXIF timestamps
- **`video.mp4`** - Final 4K video with or without audio (H.264 codec)

### Processing Feedback

During execution, you'll see:

```
=== Starting Image Conversion ===
Images to process: 12
Target: 4K UHD (3840x2160) with 2160p height scaling
Output: converted/ directory

Converting IMG_001.jpg (4032x3024->3840x2160) [████████   ] 8/12

=== Image conversion completed! ===

=== Conversion Statistics ===
   Processing time: 15.3 seconds
   Average speed: 0.8 images/sec
   Original total size: 45.2 MB
   Converted total size: 67.8 MB
   Size ratio: 1.5x

Audio file found: background.mp3
Generating video with audio...: |

=== Video generated successfully! ===
File: video.mp4
Resolution: 4K UHD (3840x2160)
Duration: 45 seconds
Images: 12
Audio: background.mp3
Size: 156.3 MB
```

### Technical Specifications

The output video uses:
- **Resolution**: 3840x2160 (4K UHD)
- **Codec**: H.264 (libx264) with CRF 23 quality
- **Audio**: AAC 192kbps with fade-in/fade-out (when MP3 present)
- **Frame Rate**: 30fps for smooth playback
- **Compatibility**: Optimized for universal playback

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**FFmpeg not found**
```
Error: ffmpeg command not found
```
- Install FFmpeg from https://ffmpeg.org/download.html
- Ensure FFmpeg is in your system PATH

**No images found**
```
No .jpg files found in current directory
```
- Place JPEG images (*.jpg) in the same directory as go24k
- Check file extensions (must be .jpg, not .jpeg)

**Permission denied (Linux/macOS)**
```
zsh: permission denied: ./go24k
```
- Make the binary executable: `chmod +x go24k`

**Audio handling (improved)**
- ✅ **No MP3 required**: Program automatically creates silent video if no MP3 found
- ✅ **Auto-detection**: Shows "Audio file found" or "No MP3 file found" messages  
- ✅ **Flexible**: Works equally well with or without background music
- If you want audio: Place any `.mp3` file in the directory
- If audio issues persist: Try a different MP3 file or run without audio

### Recent Improvements (v2.0)

Go24K has been significantly enhanced with:

- **🔧 Robust Audio Handling**: No longer requires MP3 files - works with or without audio
- **📊 Enhanced Progress Display**: Real-time resolution conversion info and statistics
- **🖥️ Cross-Platform UI**: Optimized display for Windows CMD, Linux, and macOS terminals
- **⚡ Better Performance**: Software-based H.264 encoding for universal compatibility
- **📈 Detailed Feedback**: Processing statistics, speeds, file sizes, and completion summaries
- **🎯 Improved Reliability**: Better error handling and user guidance

### Performance Tips

- **Large images**: The program automatically resizes to 2160p, but starting with smaller images (2K-4K) improves processing speed
- **Many images**: Processing time scales with image count; expect 1-2 seconds per image on modern systems
- **Long videos**: For videos longer than 10 minutes, ensure sufficient disk space for the 4K output
- **Audio optional**: Skip MP3 files for faster processing or when audio isn't needed

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.
